Here is a playground with some tips about customizing Liferay.

 1. Change the Liferay Logo by your company logo: Just go to Control Pannel; Portal; Settings; Display Settings. Click on Change and point to your png image; Save and click again on Display settings to verify the logo was changed. You can allow community administrators to change the new logo or not from that page.
 1. Create a custom theme project. I am creating one that will customize Liferay to show a predominant blue (005E82) color
{{{
cd liferay-plugins-sdk-5.2.3
./create.sh 005E82 "Predominant 005E82 r0g94b130"
cd  005E82-theme
mkdir docroot/_diffs/css
}}}
 1. Copy ncessary folders form an existing theme. Below I use the classic theme.
{{{
THEME=~/glassfishv3/glassfish/domains/liferay-domain/applications/liferay-portal-5.2.3/html/themes/classic
cp -r $THEME/css docroot/_diffs
cp -r $THEME/javascript docroot/_diffs
cp -r $THEME/images docroot/_diffs
cp -r $THEME/templates docroot/_diffs
}}}
 1. Make sure absolutely all changes are done in the _diffs directory
 1. Update custom.css to adapt to desired background and border colors (in this case 005E82)
 1. Update navigation.css the same and in addition use a transparent 1px square png as images/dock/menu_bar.png 
 1. You can always compare current theming with the one you started it from:
 {{{
 diff ~/glassfishv3/glassfish/domains/liferay-domain/applications/liferay-portal-5.2.3/html/themes/classic/css/ docroot/_diffs/css/
 }}}
 1. Deploy the theme. As I am using an external server to deploy I need to use scp and while the ant script could be changed to do that in one step I put it here separately because still I use my local server instance as well and so I need the ant script to work locally.
{{{
ant clean deploy
scp ~/liferay-plugin-deploy/005E82-theme-5.2.3.1.war liferay@liferay-glassfish-server:~/liferay-plugin-deploy
}}}
 1. Now go to Liferay and from the Dock Menu select "Manage Pages", click on "Look An Feel" and select the new created theme. See how the creative has changed.
 1. Commit to the repository the whole plugin folder but exclude the below folders:
{{{
docroot/css		
docroot/images		
docroot/javascript	
docroot/templates
}}}
 1. Remember to change the theme per community using "Manage Pages" option. Note that for private and public pages you can specify different themes.